# 2018 51/52 News Reviews

## 21 Dec
- Upheaval in Washington: Mattis quits after rift with Trump, and a shutdown looms
- After Mattis resignation, president is unbound
- U.S allies fear that traditional ties no longer matter.
- New cracks from between G.O.P lawmakers and Trump
- A lot has happend in the last couple days. We provide a rundown.
- A possible government shutdown? Here's where things stand
- Trump threatens a shutdown that will 'Last for a very long time'
- Stocks dropped around the world, suggesting another grim day on Wall Street.
- Syria pullout by U.S. tilts Mideast power toward Iran and Russia, isolating Israel
- Here's who stands to gain and who stands to lose when U.S. troops depart Syria.
- Threats to Mueller investigation in memo and recusal decision
- A top aide's exit plan raises eyebrows in the White House
- The Trump administration bypassed congress to toughen work requirements for food stamps.
- Last-Minute shoppers increasingly trust only Amazon to deliver
- The 2018 Good Tech Awards
- Gatwick airport reopens after drone incursion

### Upheaval in national security, government and the markets: Here's the state of play
[original article](https://nyti.ms/2GvFOEI)

By Mikayla Bouchard

Congress, the military and the markets were all in upheaval on Thursday.

#### National Security
- The Trump administration on Thursday announced the withdrawal of about 7,000 American troops from Afghanistan in the coming months, around half of what the American military has there now.
- This comes one day after President Trump abruptly ordered the withdrawal of 2,000 American troops from Syria, overruling many of his top generals and military advisers. The decision, which was announced on Twitter, plunged the administration’s Middle East strategy into disarray, rattled allies like Britain and Israel, and stranded Syria’s ethnic Kurds, who have been faithful partners in fighting the Islamic State.
- Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is leaving the Pentagon. Mr. Trump tweeted that Mr. Mattis would be retiring in February. Shortly after, the Defense Department released a letter from Mr. Mattis to the president saying, “Because you have the right to have a secretary of defense whose views are better aligned with yours on these and other subjects, I believe it is right for me to step down from my position.”

#### Government
- Congress is careening toward another government shutdown. If lawmakers cannot pass a budget or a stopgap spending bill by Friday at midnight, the government will experience a shutdown for the third time this year.
- President Trump torpedoed a short-term spending bill on Thursday that had already passed the Senate and was on deck in the House, doubling down on his demand for $5 billion in funding for a southern border wall. Mr. Trump has made clear that he is willing to take the blame for a shutdown in the pursuit of his signature campaign pledge.
- The Senate must return to Washington on Friday to vote on a House-passed stopgap spending bill that included $5.7 billion for the wall and is sure to die.

#### The Markets
- Stocks tumbled yet again on Thursday. The S & P 500-stock index declined 1.6 percent, and the Dow Jones Industrial index fell 2 percent. The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite fell 1.6 percent, pushing it 19.5 percent below its late-August peak. A decline of 20 percent marks the official start of a bear market.
- Investors are worried that the trade war, rising interest rates (in part a product of the ballooning government deficit), and the end of the wood filler from tax cuts will all erode corporate profit growth.
- On Wednesday, Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chairman, defended the decision to raise the benchmark rate for the fifth consecutive quarter, a move made despite political pressure and financial market worries.
- The benchmark rate will now sit in a range from 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent.

### The 2018 Good Tech Awards
[original article](https://nyti.ms/2Rgiq22)

[By Kevin Roose](https://www.nytimes.com/by/kevin-roose)

Last year, I handed out “good tech” awards to a handful of companies, nonprofit organizations and people who used technology to help others in real, tangible ways. The goal was to shine a spotlight on a few less-heralded projects that may not get front-page headlines or billions of dollars in funding, but are actually trying to fulfill the tech industry’s stated goal of improving the world.

#### To Zipline and Swoop Aero, for using drones to heal the sick.

For years, consumer drones were hyped as a new technology that would soon fill the skies over America’s cities, delivering packages and surveilling the populace. Luckily, that hasn’t happened yet, but elsewhere, drone companies are doing real work.

One of these efforts is Zipline, a start-up that uses drones to deliver blood and medicine to medical facilities in remote areas that can’t be easily reached by traditional vehicles. The company began operating in Rwanda, where it says it has made more than 8,000 deliveries, and this year expanded to Ghana.

Another is Swoop Aero, an Australian drone-delivery company that partnered with Unicef this year to deliver vaccines to the remote South Pacific nation of Vanuatu, where roughly 20 percent of children do not get properly vaccinated. One nurse in the country told The New York Times that the drone deliveries “will change my life.”

#### To Upsolve, for helping people go bankrupt.

For many low-income Americans, declaring personal bankruptcy can be a painful but necessary way to get rid of exorbitant medical bills or predatory lenders. But it’s often expensive to hire a bankruptcy lawyer, and hard to navigate the maze of paperwork.

Upsolve, a nonprofit organization founded by a Harvard graduate and a lawyer, built a tool that has been referred to as the “TurboTax of bankruptcy.” The software collects financial information from users, automatically fills out their forms and passes them to a lawyer who reviews them before the user submits a bankruptcy claim. In 2018, it helped users in 47 states discharge a total of more than \$13 million in debt, according to Rohan Pavuluri, the company’s chief executive.

#### To Joy Buolamwini, Timnit Gebru and Anima Anandkumar, for calling out A.I. bias.
Artificial intelligence will be one of the most important areas of computer science in the coming years. It’s also one of the least diverse. Just 12 percent of A.I. researchers are women, and the number of black and Latino executives in the field is vanishingly small. Three leading A.I. researchers are trying to change that.

Ms. Buolamwini, a researcher at the M.I.T. Media Lab, is the founder of the Algorithmic Justice League, an organization trying to fight what it calls the “coded gaze” of biased algorithms. This year, she and Ms. Gebru — a Google researcher and co-founder of a group called Black in A.I. — released a study that showed that three leading facial recognition algorithms were substantially worse at classifying darker faces than lighter faces, and worse at classifying women’s faces than men’s faces. The study set off alarm bells at leading tech companies, and was widely cited as evidence of the need for more diversity in the field.

Separately, Ms. Anandkumar, Nvidia’s director of machine learning research and a professor at Caltech, saw that the name of the A.I. field’s marquee annual event — the Neural Information Processing Systems conference, or NIPS — had been used as fodder for sexist jokes. So she started a #ProtestNIPS campaign to change the name, and drew up a petition that gathered more than 2,000 signatures. Eventually, the conference’s board relented, and the event is now abbreviated as “NeurIPS.” It was a small gesture of inclusion that could go a long way toward making women feel more welcome in the field for years to come.

#### To Promise, Uptrust and Clear My Record, for helping solve our prison problem.

Ending mass incarceration has long been seen as a political challenge. But these three companies are trying to show that technology can help.

Promise is an app built to keep people out of jail. Aimed at pretrial defendants who cannot afford to post cash bail, it creates customized care plans for each user, sends them reminders of court dates and other critical appointments and allows courts to monitor their progress. The company, which participated in the YCombinator start-up program, recently raised $3 million from investors including Jay-Z’s Roc Nation fund and First Round Capital.

Another start-up, Uptrust, offers a similar text message-based system that sends personalized appointment reminders to low-income clients, and can connect them to services that make getting to court easier, such as rides or child care. The service is already up and running in a handful of states, including Baltimore County, Md., and Palm Beach County, Fla.

Code for America, a nonprofit organization modeled after Teach for America, built Clear My Record, a tool that helps people with old criminal convictions get them reduced or expunged, which makes it easier for them to find housing and get jobs. This year, the team formed a partnership with George Gascón, the San Francisco district attorney, to work on a new program that automates the process of expunging marijuana-related convictions under the state’s legalization laws. The group aims to remove 250,000 convictions by the end of 2019.

#### To workers at big tech companies, for holding their employers accountable.

The most heartening trend to come out of large tech companies in 2018 was a surge in employee-led activism. Protests by regulators, shareholders and users have thus far failed to stop the worst excesses of the industry, leaving these companies’ own employees — who are expensive and hard to replace, and therefore have lots of leverage — to agitate for change from within.

At Google, a group of employees went public with concerns about Project Dragonfly, a secret Google project to create a censored version of its search engine for China. Their activism resulted in a petition, which was signed by hundreds of Google employees, to demand that the company cease work on the project.

Another group of employees spoke up after The Times reported on the $90 million payout made to the former Google executive Andy Rubin, who was accused of sexual misconduct. Their efforts culminated in a 20,000-employee protest walkout.

Workers at Amazon and Microsoft have also spoken up for change within their companies, on issues ranging from climate change to surveillance, A.I. ethics and the decision to work with federal immigration agencies.

These workers didn’t solve every problem in tech overnight, but they have created a playbook for other employee activists to follow. More important, they have finally given their executives a measure of accountability — something they proved they will badly need in 2019.

### Words

#### torpedo
noun (plural torpedoes)

1. a cigar-shaped self-propelled underwater missile designed to be fired from a ship or submarine or dropped into the water from an aircraft and to explode on reaching a target.
	- US a firework exploding on impact with a hard surface.
	- US a signal placed on a railroad track, exploding as the train passes over it.
	- informal a submarine sandwich.
	- informal a gangster hired to commit a murder or other violent act.
	- an explosive device lowered into oil wells to clear obstructions.
2. (also torpedo ray) an electric ray.
verb (torpedoes, torpedoing, torpedoed) [with object]
attack or sink (a ship) with a torpedo or torpedoes.
	- destroy or ruin (a plan or project): fighting between the militias torpedoed peace talks.

#### rundown
noun | ˈrənˌdoun | [usually in singular]

1. an analysis or summary of something by a knowledgeable person: he gave his teammates a rundown on the opposition.
2. a reduction in the productivity or activities of a company or institution: a rundown in the business would be a devastating blow to the local economy.
3. Baseball an attempt by two or more fielders to tag out a base runner who is trapped between two bases: he was caught in a rundown and tagged out by the shortstop.

adjective | ˌrənˈdoun | (usually run-down)

1. (especially of a building or area) in a poor or neglected state after having been prosperous: a run-down, vandalized inner-city area.
	- (of a company or industry) in a poor economic state.
2.  [predicative] tired and somewhat unwell, especially through overwork: feeling tired and generally run-down.

## 22 Dec
- Shutdown takes effect after Last-Minute talks fail to break impasse
- Trump policy swings threaten fragile G.O.P coalition
- How a shutdown would affect federal agencies
- Trump's allies in conservative media put the president 'on the Griddle'
- As Markets tumble, tech stocks hit a rare and ominous milestone
- A shutdown might not have much immediate impact on economy
- With generals gone, the world may see what 'America First' truly means
- Supreme court won't revive Trump policy limiting Asylum

### Words

#### impasse
noun

a situation in which no progress is possible, especially because of disagreement; a deadlock: the current political impasse.
