# 2018 50/52 NYT Reviews

## 12 Dec
- Trump threatens shutdown in combative appearance with democrats.
- Marriott Data Breach is traced to Chinese hackers as U.S readies crackdown on Beijing.
- E.U. hoped to put its house in order this year. Not even close.
- Trump's judicial nominees take heat but largely keep marching through senate.
- How do you recover after millions have watched you overdose?
- 2020 democrats face a vexing issue: Big money from the rich
- Warming in Arctic raises fears of a 'Rapid Unraveling' of the region.

## 13 Dec
- How big oil secretly pushed for Trump's car emission rollbacks.
- Theresa may survives leadership challenge, but Brexit plan is still in peril.
- Tabloid publisher's deal in hush-money inquiry adds to Trump's danger.
- Cohen, Trump's ex-lawyer, sentenced to 3 years in Hush-Money scandal.
- Apple to add $1 billion Texas Campus and thousands of jobs across U.S.
- High-Tech Degrees and the price of an Avocado: The data New York gave to Amazon
- Voice of America, a trusted news source abroad, braces for shift to the right.
- SpaceX, which owns land in South Texas, may be a barrier for president Trump's border wall.
- Pelosi strikes deal to limit her speakership to 4 years.
- China tries a different approach with the U.S.: Treading Lightly.
- China detains a 2nd Canadian, escalating diplomatic feud.

### The oil industry's covert campaign to rewrite American car emissions rules
[original article](https://nyti.ms/2GdxWHH)

By Hiroko Tabuchi

In Congress, on Facebook and in statehouses nationwide, Marathon Petroleum, the country’s largest refiner, worked with powerful oil-industry groups and a conservative policy network financed by the billionaire industrialist Charles G. Koch to run a stealth campaign to roll back car emissions standards, a New York Times investigation has found.

The campaign’s main argument for significantly easing fuel efficiency standards — that the United States is so awash in oil it no longer needs to worry about energy conservation — clashed with decades of federal energy and environmental policy.

The industry had reason to urge the rollback of higher fuel efficiency standards proposed by former President Barack Obama. A quarter of the world’s oil is used to power cars, and less-thirsty vehicles mean lower gasoline sales.

### Words

#### turmoil
noun

a state of great disturbance, confusion, or uncertainty: the country was in turmoil | he endured years of inner turmoil.

#### Tabloid
noun

a newspaper having pages half the size of those of a standard newspaper, typically popular in style and dominated by headlines, photographs, and sensational stories.

#### tread
verb (past trod | träd, träd | ; past participle trodden | ˈträdn | or trod) [no object, with adverbial]

walk in a specified way: figurative : the administration had to tread carefully so as not to offend the judiciary | he trod lightly, trying to make as little contact with the mud as possible.

- (tread on) chiefly British set one's foot down on top of.
- [with object] walk on or along: shoppers will soon be treading the floors of the new shopping mall.
- [with object] press down into the ground or another surface with the feet: food and cigarette butts had been trodden into the carpet.
- [with object and adverbial] crush or flatten something with the feet: the snow had been trodden down by the horses | (as adjective trodden) : she stood on the floor of trodden earth.

#### congress
noun

1. (Congress) a national legislative body, especially that of the US. The US Congress, which meets at the Capitol in Washington, D.C., was established by the Constitution of 1787 and is composed of the Senate and the House of Representatives: changes in taxation required the approval of Congress | legislative power is held by a 72-member National Congress.
• a particular session of the US Congress: the 104th Congress.
2. a formal meeting or series of meetings for discussion between delegates, especially those from a political party or labor union or from within a particular discipline: an international congress of mathematicians.
3. a society or organization, especially a political one: the National Congress of American Indians.
4. the action of coming together: sexual congress.

## 14 Dec
- Committees tied to Trump said to be scrutinized for illegal foreign donations.
- Cohen says 'Of course' Trump knew hush payments to women were wrong.
- Maria Butina, accused Russian agent, pleads guilty.
- Despair, Love and Loss: A Journey inside West Virginia's Opioid crisis.
- China's economy slows sharply, in challenge for Xi Jinping
- An Emboldened China no longer cares what its critics think.
- Global stocks dropped amid a worsening economic outlook in China.
- Behind CBS's secret $9.5 million settlement with the actress Eliza Dushku
- Lists of priests accused of sexual abuse are spilling out across the country
- Review: a Broadway 'Mockingbird,' elegiac and effective.

### Chase for tech talent pushes tech giants far beyond west coast.

[original article](https://nyti.ms/2zXDSiF)

By Jack Nicas and Karen Weise

SAN FRANCISCO — This generation’s biggest technology companies — including Apple, Amazon and Google — have long been tied to their hometowns. Now these giants are increasingly **outgrowing their West Coast roots**.

Driven by a limited pool of skilled workers and the ballooning cost of living in their home bases of Silicon Valley and Seattle, as well as President Trump’s shifting immigration policies, the companies are aggressively taking their talent hunt across the United States and elsewhere. And they are coalescing particularly around a handful of urban areas that are already winners in the new knowledge-based economy, including New York City, Washington, Boston and Austin, Tex.

The median home in San Francisco is valued at almost \$1.4 million and more than \$733,000 in Seattle.

The Trump administration has increased the red tape in applying for H-1B visas for highly skilled workers and has denied petitions more often. 

### words

#### hush
verb [with object]

make (someone) be quiet or stop talking: he placed a finger before pursed lips to hush her.

- [no object, often in imperative] be quiet: Hush! Someone will hear you.
- (hush something up) suppress public mention of something: management took steps to hush up the dangers.

#### plead
verb (past pleaded or pled | pled | )

1. [reporting verb] make an emotional appeal: [with direct speech] : “Don't go,” she pleaded | [with infinitive] : Anne pleaded to go with her | [no object] : they pleaded with Carol to come home again.
2. [with object] present and argue for (a position), especially in court or in another public context: using cheap melodrama to plead the case for three prisoners.

- [no object] Law address a court as an advocate on behalf of a party.
- [no object, with complement] Law state formally in court whether one is guilty or not guilty of the offense with which one is charged: he pleaded guilty to the drug charge.
- Law invoke (a reason or a point of law) as an accusation or defense: on trial for attempted murder, she pleaded self-defense.
- offer or present as an excuse for doing or not doing something: he pleaded family commitments as a reason for not attending.

#### embolden
verb [with object]

1. give (someone) the courage or confidence to do something or to behave in a certain way: emboldened by robust passenger traffic, the airlines put through major fare increases.
2. cause (a piece of text) to appear in a bold typeface: center, embolden, and underline the heading.
